The only known gap in the Kashin Baya, the Grey Sea is a large valley that cuts through the mountain range and leads to Maka-Tho.

[h2]Geography[/h2]

Despite its' name, the Grey Sea has no water or liquid of any kind. No rivers, streams, or lakes are to be found anywhere within its borders. It gets its name from the strange material that makes up the ground -- a hard, indistructable stone that is perfectly flat covers the land. Geologists have tried digging at the south edge of the Grey Sea to see if anything lay beneath the surface, only to find that digging simply unearthed a slanted side made of the same stone. No matter where they dug anywhere along the edge of the Grey Sea, they found the slanted side. The current theory is that the Grey Sea is simply the top of some giagantic structure.

The geologists also discovered that the Kashin Baya mountain range must predate the Grey Sea. Along the west and eastern edges, the "floor" of the Grey Sea lay below what could be called "ground level". All along both sides of the Grey Sea it's as if the sea had been dropped from a great high, shearing through the mountains before coming to rest. At some points the cliffs are so tall they get lost in the clouds.

For a time there were arguments about why the Grey Sea hadn't been filled in by sediment brought by rain or wind. The reason is something anyone who has travelled across the Grey Sea could tell you: anything solid left upon its surface is absorbed. Once a solid object is placed upon the surface and left alone, after 4 minutes and 28.43 seconds [b]exactly[/b] the object is absorbed. The rate of absorbtion is constant, at about 1 square meter of material per 10 minutes. What material the object is made of doesn't seem to have any impact on how long it takes before being absorbed or how long it takes before its fully absorbed.

[h3]Fauna[/h3]

Due to the properties of the stone making up the Grey Sea, almost nothing lives or grows within the region. There is one noteable exception: the Tree, also known as the "Impossible Tree".

At the center of the Grey Sea is an absolutely enormous tree, that can be seen from either edge of the of the region. Standing nearly two kilometers tall, the trunk has a diameter of nearly 5 kilometers. There are no branches below 1 kilometer. The branches themselves spread over a wide area, covering an area over 70 kilometers square.

The roots of the tree pass through the material making up the Grey Sea apparently without issue. The material doesn't get pushed or weakened, the roots simply pass through. The trunk of the tree has many holes, ranging in size from about a closet to the size of a house. It's theorized that these holes are from branches that fell off in ages past, but nobody is certain. The tree resists any attempts to cut new holes; anything hammered into the tree is pushed out. Holes cut into the tree are quickly filled with a strange purple sap before scabbing over, when the scab disolves the hole is nowhere to be seen and the bark looks as if it had never been cut into.

The tree is the home of a settlement of people who live on the roots and in homes built into the tree. People have built homes into nearly every hole on the tree, linked by ropes, ladders, and platforms hung from the branches far above.

The only reason people are able to live in the tree is that it provides sustinance for those living under its branches. Vines that crawl up the tree produce tasteless fruits that are mostly water, while among the branches of the tree grow tougher fruits that make up most of the diet of the village. These fruits are sweet and fruity, with a bit of spice to them. They can safely be eaten without preparation, although most of the villagers cook them in some fashion. Additionally, there are a number of other vines and plants growing in the bark of the tree that provide additional fruit and nuts to consume. To supplement their diets, many of the families keep birds. These are kept either in cages hung near their homes, or in communal cages in the branches of the trees. Although not many outsiders are allowed into the branches of the tree, there are rumors that they have a herd of animals they keep. If true, it's probably where the villagers get the material for cloth -- not many traders make the trek to the Grey Sea. 

[h2]History[/h2]

Up until recently, the Grey Sea was simply an odd place that explorers traversed on their way to the greater mystery that lay beyond the northern edge of the Grey Sea, the Maka-Tho mists. Occasionally someone would come to the region looking to join the community at the Tree, but most folks passing through the area are itenerant.

With the mists having disappeared, some changes have come to the area.

The first is that the Sable Hegemony has built a small fort at the northern edge of the Grey Sea. The trade outpost at the southern end has been secured as well, with the army surrounding the outpost with a palisade and a barracks. Due to the uncertain nature of the Maka-Tho region, the Sable Hegemony is keeping their eye on the Grey Sea. Their greatest fear is that the Voz Dynasty will find a path from their lands through Maka-Tho to strike almost at the capital. Many regiments have been re-tasked to garrison the cities near the Grey Sea.

There has been talk among some of the great cities of the Sable Hegemony that the Grey Sea needs to be better fortified. Some say that the army wrights should be given the task of boring tunnels through the mountains on either side of the Grey Sea in order to create safer highways to the Maka-Tho border. Some agree, but take the notion further and envision each side of the Grey Sea studded with forts and gun emplacements to ensure that no foe could pass through unharmed.

For now the Queen is willing to play a more risky game, waiting to see how the region develops -- particularly Ararholm.

====================
OLD

------

However, there was a gap in the Kashin Baya; the Grey Sea. A strange area, seemingly cut out of the Kashin Baya by some great machine long ago. Until the mists cleared, the Grey Sea was an oddity you passed through on your way to and from the mist wall of Maka-Tho. Up until the mists cleared, the only ones who made the journey were explorers or madmen who thought they knew how to pass through the mists unharmed. When the mists cleared, the first thing found was the desiccated remains of the thousands who had attempted to cross the mist-wall in eons past.

----------

The Grey Sea is a strange place. Not an ocean of water, or even liquid: the Grey
Sea is a valley of perfectly flat, perfectly smooth, indistructable grey-white
stone. 

The stone that makes up the Grey Sea is notable for many reasons, but the one
that is immediately apparent is how flat it is. The Grey Sea is perfectly,
inhumanly flat. Despite being an expanse of land that takes nearly a month to
traverse, the ground is so flat you can see from one end to the other with a
good telescope and clear air. This flat terrain does not line up perfectly with
the terain on its borders. At the southern and northern entrances, the Grey Sea
sits 1.25 meters below the ground level. Scholars have attempted to excavate
along the southern edge, but were stymied by a lip of the material that makes up
the Grey Sea that extends down and out from the Grey Sea. Nobody is sure how
much of the Grey Sea lay hidden beneath the soil, like an iceberg sitting below
water.

Scholars had wondered why the Grey Sea has not filled up in the centuries before
and after its discovery. A simple experiment told them all they needed to know:
solids simply disappear in the blink of an eye after being left motionless on
the surface for 4.2843 minutes, and all liquids are drawn towards the center of
the Grey Sea.
