[h2]Mists & Mountains[/h2]

The region where this story takes place is bordered on three sides by geography,
and on the last side by an empire greater than one dreamt of by Ghengis Khan.

To the south is the Kashin Baya, a range of mountains that runs from the sea out
east for thousands of kilometers. Straight as an arrow, there are scholars who
posit that the mountain range is unnatural. Mostly unpassable, some passes have
been found in the mountains further east, but there are only two sure-fire ways
past the mountains. The first is the Grey Sea, a strange flat region that seems
to have been carved through the mountains at one point. The only other way
around is to travel far to the east, where the mountains finally turn to hills,
before subsiding into a great rolling plain. There are some small passes or ways
bored through the mountain, but for most these are the only ways to get to the
lands beyond the Kashin Baya.

To the north are the Obsi Takobin, a range of mountains not well known outside
the Voz Dynasty. Closer to obisidian blades thrust into the earth than mountains
formed via the slow process of geology, this mountain range is the furthest
north anyone from any surrounding country has been. They go for thousands of
kilometers, and as far as anyone can tell they lay in an unbroken line that
travels the entire Ninth World. This theory is supported by the fact that the
few who have travelled the sea far enough north have found that the Obsi Takobin
rises from the ocean, just as sharp and dangerous as it is on land.

These two mountain ranges define the northern and southern boundaries of
Maka-Tho. To the West is the sea, although very few have seen it's shores; the
mists of Maka-Tho extended far out to see, and few captains are willing to take
their ships into dangerous unexplored waters.

Somewhere to the east is the kingdom of the Voz Dynasty, and through the Grey
Sea to the south is the kingdom of the Sable Hegemony. Two giant empires, that
through destiny both are bordered and shaped by Maka-Tho. Once partially
defining their empires by the wall of mist that kept them from their enemies,
both now search for advantage in the frontier.
