The lands of Maka-Tho are an enticing place for those who don't agree with the
laws forced upon them by those with power.

Wandering Aeon Priests, exiled from the Steadfast for delving a bit too deep,
have found their way to Maka-Tho. Some seem harmless, some are stark raving mad,
some are truly just misunderstood geniuses who could craft wonders -- but who is
who, and how can you tell the genius from the mad when dealing with numenera?
What research is being done by lone priests, out beyond the reach of the Amber
Pope?

Calda and Sudboia are both nations of laws, although with very little in common
between their two sets of laws. However, where there are laws there are those
that will chafe under them. The greedy who look to take by guile or by force
that which belongs to others. The sadists and the insane, who kill for reasons
no-one will every really understand. The prophets and leaders of men who look to
find their new god in the wild lands of the frontier. And of course, there are
those who just seek power -- over people or over kingdoms, it doesn't matter.

Then there are the brave and foolhardy, the hunters and the lone
explorers. Those who come because of some romantic notion of adventure in the
wilderness. Some come because they believe they'll make a name for themselves or
gain great glory and honor by finding a great beast and bringing it down. Others
because the thrill and danger of a hunt is the only thing that brings them any
feeling any more. In either case, neither are the type to ensure that whatever
creature they stalk or ruins they explore won't find its way back to Ararholm.

Lastly there are the warbands. Most of these traveling groups of warriors
fought on the front lines at one point. Disenchanted by an endless stalemate, or
tired of taking orders, these are groups of people very talented at
killing. Some are Mutanen deserters, looking to find a stronghold in Maka-Tho to
serve as the home of bandit raids for resources. Some are deserters from the
Ebony Legion of Calda, looking for somewhere quiet they can make safe and not
have to fight again.

Others are gangs or bandits chased away from the city-states of Calda. Some look
to gain control of some soon-to-be important travel route so they can extort
those who wish to pass, where as some look to build a smugglers empire -- with
hidden fortresses, warehouses, and workshops where they create and store black
market goods. They haven't figured out how they'll get those goods back to those
that will pay for them, but they'll figure that out eventually.

All of these dangerous groups and more are the silent immigrants to
Maka-Tho. Those who wish to go uncounted on any census that would be done of the
area -- if they aren't willing to just kill the census taker immediately, that
is. Some have already established footholds in the region, and become more of a
danger each day. Some of these people won't present any kind of a problem until
they're suddenly a huge problem for everyone. Such is the life in the Ninth World.
