747: returns home for a short period of time. this time when he leaves, rumors and stories spread of
ager heading off to fight some great beast -- because he's seen leaving wearing his most powerful
armor, weapons, and numenera. outside of dealing with local threats, he's never left on a "trip"
outfitted in this manner.

748: ager travels east to see No-Mans Land, not seen for years

758: ager returns from his travels with a wife. rumors in calda is that she's a princess or noble
from the voz dynasty. both ager and tashi don't share much information about how they met and fell in love. when
they can be persuaded to talk about it, all they will offer is a short, cryptic story of "wits and guile opening 
tashi's eyes to the wonders and beauty of the world".

760: ager goes on more walkabouts. tashi is by his side so long as he remains within the Steadfast, when he goes
to further explore Calda she stays behind to manage what is becoming a trade empire that stretches the length and
breadth of the steadfast

771: maka-tho mists lift, word reaches ager three months later when he ventures into calda once more

772: ager is part of first expidition to explore Maka-Tho

773, [14 months later]: ager and what's left of the expidition return

775: ager returns to calda for a period of time 

778: ager gets permission from sable throne to found a settlement in Maka-Tho. this causes a stir amongs the
nobles of the Sable Hegemony -- Ager is not only not a noble, he's not of calda! 

780, month <x>: ager returns to calda, tries to begin preperation to start over in maka-tho. ager and tashi are heard
having several arguments over this, rumours spread that death awaits one or both of them in these new lands

781, month <x> [six months later]: somehow, ager convinces tashi to move to maka-tho. preperations begin in earnest: contracts are drawn up for those who are willing to join the expedition, and the vehicles and provisions required to make such a journey are gathered and prepared. ager cedes control of his trade empire to his second in command, and leaves with 45 people

788, month <X>: ager and his party reach the edge of the grey sea, having lost a few people along the way but also having gained many more. the party is now 61 people strong.

789, month <X>: party reaches the site of what will become Ararholm.

790, month <X> [three months later]: ager reveals the reason why he bypassed other places that ( in some cases ) looked more suitable than where they stood now: the ship, and the bounty that lay within. ager controls the means of entry, but has a pretty open policy regarding who's allowed to enter and when

801: a daughter is born to tashi and ager, she is named Pamki -- which according to Tashi means "beautiful flower"

802: ager continues to spend time wandering the world, although he spends less time on the roads. drawn back home to his
family, some wonder if the days of ager walking the wilds is coming to an end 

805: Tashi dies of a wasting disease, leaving Ager heartbroken. he is despondant, and shuts himself away in his rooms
for several months.

806: when ager finally ventures out into the world again, he is a changed man. while most only see the same charming and
carefree man he was before the death of his wife, those closer to him know that the sense of joy and wonder he carried
with him is gone, or at least hidden deep within. the only time he seems to be truly happy is the weeks after returning
home and is reuinted with pamki again.

809: an accident caused by mistaken identity and/or old grudges causes an accident within the ship, causing a section
of the platau ararholm sits upon to collapse. luckily there were no homes there. additionally, some portion of the
spring that lay beneath ararholm finds its way through the cracks and begins to fills the collapsed portion with water.
something in the collapsed section of the plateau warms the water and changes the properties of the water. it is no
longer safe to drink, but laying within the waters heals minor injuries and is found to be very relaxing. despite the
beneficial outcome of the accident, ager puts limits on how many people are allowed to enter the ship at one time. his
hope is that with fewer people in the ship at once, there will be fewer chances for such accidents to happen again in
the future.

811: as people begin to come to ararholm in greater numbers as the fear of the mists receeds, ager is worried about the
make-up of the people who come to town. most are explorers and adventurers, who only come to explore the ship or the
surrounding ruins before leaving ( or perhaps dying, all that's known is that they're not seen again ). there are some
that come from calda with their families but most of these start farms. ager worries that the balance of power is
tipping towards the "horde of unwashed drit-grubbers", as he calls the growing group of adventurers camped outside
the city.

815: pamki comes of age, and ager begins instructing her on the ship. he also begins teaching her about the numenera he's collected, and tries to impart the wisdom he'd gathered over the years to his daughter.

821/6/11, 14:51: dies

=========

now: 834

pamki: 33 years old now
  --> born: 801

mists lift: 63 years ago ( 771 )
