#####

Doesn't match the timeline properly, but keeping cause there are details in here
I should put in other articles and whatnot.

####


Once a glaive who spent his days wandering the Steadfast, in his youth Ager stumbled upon a trove of numenera and ancient knowledge that made him a very rich man. He spent the next decade slowly building a trade empire that brought his growing family even more wealth. Based in the city of Qi, Ager became a well-known and much loved figure in the town's politics. He shared his wealth liberally, despite the protestations of some of his family and some other high ranking members of the city.

However, Ager couldn't shake the wanderlust that inspired him to start travelling in the first place. He'd spend a few years at home before putting on simple clothes and wandering out into the world once more. He'd always come home, with more tales of wonderous locations and amazing numenera to trade or sell -- or keep in the family vault.

In his travels, Ager discovered something out in the Beyond. Past the Black Riage, past the Ba-Adenu Forest, somewhere along the great wall of mountains that makes the southern portion of the Clock of Kala, Ager found something. Set into the side of the clock was what appeared to be a great arch, made of a strange metal that reflected only some wavelengths of light. While he was unable to get the archway working when he first found it, he knew there must be a way. Naming it the Kala Arch, he set off to find out the tools and knowledge he needed to activate the arch.

He spent the next decade of his life looking for a way to turn this device on, wondering what strange new lands it would take him to.

During his wanderings he met a woman, Tashi Shaho. His desert rose, his noble hawk. They fell deeply in love, and Ager gave up his life of adventuring to be the steadfast rock her and their new daughter needed him to be. But when his wife grew sick from a plague and died, Ager lost part of himself. Until his last day he still believed, despite what he was told by everyone he knew -- he would have been able to find a cure, out in the world. But he knew that at that time, in that place, his place was at his wife's side, raising their daughter.

Pamki wonders sometimes if her father ever resented her for tying him to a home when all he wanted to do was go find a way to save his wife. What Ager never had the heart to tell her is that she saved his soul; he knew that there was nothing he wouldn't have done, no stone he would have left unturned to save his wife. He had discovered many things he had left alone in his travels, dark and dangerous things best left forgotten. He would have gathered them all to save his wife, and he knows it would have destroyed him. Pamki kept him from becoming the monster he had fought so often on his travels.

After she died, Ager spent a year in mourning. Once done, he took up his travelling ways once more, but was known to take risks he hadn't before. Those closest to him wondered if Ager was driving himself to explore and find things so he could ensure Pamki would never be put in the same position as himself. Others figured he worked out his grief the only way he knew how as an old glaive: getting into trouble.

Eventually though, he was able to get the archway working, and it turned out to be almost exactly what Ager had been looking for his whole life. Despite his pride at unlocking the Kala Arch, Ager didn't feel the joy he had expected. His mood was tempered by the fact he knew that the wonders and joy that lay on the other side of the gate would never be known to Tashi, his rose.

Despite his subdued outlook, what he found on the other side of the arch was still enough to take his breath away. The other side of the arch stood upon the side of a mountain or hill. What it looked out on was a land at least the equal of the Steadfast, full of thrilling wonders and unexplored dangers. An area of the world populated by humans, but unknown to any in the Steadfast. Here, maybe, he could forge a legacy he felt worthy of passing down to his daughter.

He spent the next few years venturing out into this new land, getting to know the land and it's peoples.

Ager found many new things in the land, which he eventually learned was called Calda. This land was vast, encompassing an area nearly the size of the Steadfast back home. And while some customs and places were strange to Ager, what was stranger was how much it felt like home. The people in Calda spoke Truth, or something close enough that he was able to learn the language quickly and easily. Even the abhumans that troubled him in the Steadfast and the Beyond could be found in Calda, although there were some new ones that nearly ended his life on more than one occasion.

Eventually Ager learned of other things: the Sable Hegemon and it's Emperor Queen, Sudboia and the Voz Dynasty ruled by Burkham Khaan, the mists of Maka-Tho, the blighted ruins of No-Mans Land, the Void Forest, the tunnels and terminals of the Singhan Roots, and more. 

In all of his wanderings though, he kept the Kala Arch a secret. Not only from the peoples of Calda and Sudboia, but also from the kingdoms of the Steadfast. This was a doorway into other lands, but big enough that it could bring entire armies through. Ager had enough of wars in his youth, he swore to keep the arch a secret until he could link the two lands peacefully through trade or other means.

Try as he might, he was never able to determine a way to introduce the two regions to one another without risking war. Any route that promised to lead south to the Steadfast turned into a dead end, foiled by terrain or numenera.

He did find something else though, that made up for his failures to connect the lands. He found Maka-Tho.

The story of Maka-Tho is told elsewhere, but what is important is how Ager shaped the stories told of Maka-Tho. When Ager arrived, Maka-Tho was still a region shrouded by the strange killing pink mist. However, sixty-three years ago the mist disappeared. And Ager was one of the first to explore this new frontier.

Ager Hammersplint didn't care why the mist had disappeared. He was unconcerned by the notion it might suddenly return. Now that it was gone, there was a whole new area of the Ninth World to explore, and come hell or high water that's what he set out to do. An unexplored region, possibly bigger than all of the Steadfast, and he could be one of the first to set foot on that land? Ager couldn't resist. He was among the first to join the expedition sent forth by the Sable Empress to explore the region.

While exploring the expedition found itself in a land of rolling hills. One hill in particular caught the eye of the expedition leader: taller than nearby hills, with some cliff faces it would be easier to set up a base camp. Additionally, he could see the glimmer of a waterfall, which meant not having to set up camp close to the impassable swamp they had found to the north. They had encountered some very territorial creatures near the swamp, and preferred a base camp far from those creatures.

Underneath that hill was the discovery that would become Ager's legacy. Atop that hill would be the future home of Ararholm and the seat of Ager's family.

Beneath the stone and drit of the hill lay a ship. What little exploring he was able to do let him know the ship was massive; closer to being a city encased in metal and viewports than anything he had seen or heard of before. Such a vessel would surely hold many numenera, but it's what Ager found inside the ship that started his empire-building plans in motion.

The ship wasn't like any of the ruins Ager had found in the past. Those tended to be dangerous piles of rust and jagged metal, or nearly full of dirt and stone that made finding numenera more akin to proper archeology than the tomb raiding Ager preferred.

But the ship Ager found was different. An ancient ship, strangely free of dirt or debris, lay beneath the ground. At first, the only area of the ship that seemed damaged was the portion that had given him access to its depths in the first place. He found a few other damaged sections as he explored, but most of the ship appeared to be undamaged.

And what he did find was more impressive than anything he had seen before or after.

This ship was massive. Once past the damaged section closest to the surface, Ager found wonders. Immense cavern-like rooms full of light and life. Artifical suns wandered across roofs miles above his head, bringing light and heat to forests, jungles, and grassy plains deep beneath the ground. 

Hallways of endless doors, leading to sleeping chambers, warehouses, and rooms without explanation. Manufacturing zones where the robots and machines that kept the ship working were built or maintained. Factories full of strange machines that worked metal, solidified light, or crafted wonders from exotic materials.

Ager sometimes felt that it was less a ship, and more of a buried city. Or a buried country.

Regardless, it was deserted. Or at least mostly deserted. Animals had snuck in to find themselves in predator free wildlife preserves. In some of the cavernous chambers Ager found creatures from ages long past. Some were known to him, such as gallen, aneen, or dossi. Others he recognized from books or data. Some were creatures long dead but kept alive here in chambers specifically built for them. Had he known what a horse was he would have been astounded to find a chamber built like a prairie with herds of wild horses running free.

In some places, he found strange menageries, places where unalike creatures lived side-by-side. Predators lived next to fearless prey, unable to eat due to differences in biology. Strange symbiosis kept in tune by the ceaseless workings of the ship.

There were also dangers to be found, and avoided when possible. Various abhuman species have taken up residence in some sections. Drones and other machines roam the halls. Most are still part of the ships network. The ones that are not still connected have become stuck executing their last command. In the case of some machines this is not an issue; a cleaning robot stuck cleaning a section of hallway is not that dangerous (usually). A garbage gathering drone that can't tell if you're a particularly large pile of dirty clothes or a person is an issue.

The worst machines to run into, however, are the security drones. Because they have been disconnected from the friend or foe systems of the ship, they default to treating everyone as a foe. These drones are not built for combat though, they were built to be assistants to the security forces of the ship. Built to put down riots, not defend against invaders. These small, seemingly harmless drones are the one thing Ager would always either run from if he could, or attempt to destroy immediately if he was too close.

The reason has to do with how they assisted the security forces. Rather than shoot or maim or attack in any way, the drones are simpler. They emit a field that knocks out or binds intruders, at which point they're carried away to the brig. The issue here is two-fold: if you're put into a cell that still works, getting out of a cell with malleable metal walls is tough but do-able. The cells that don't work are easy to escape, as the doors don't even close without power.

Getting out of a cell is a tiny problem compared to the one you're faced with post-escape: finding your way back. The ship is large, and has many brigs spread throughout the ship. Some are small, only meant to hold a drunk or beligerent crew member for a short while before being transferred or released. Others are large, holding cells where small rioting arms can be contained until they calm down. The drones will usually bring you to the closest brig, but Ager knows it's possible to be taken to one that is either very hard to find your way back, or so far away that you're functionally lost forever. 

Anyways, that was not all he found, though.

In a medium sized room, almost hidden by damage or subterfuge was a terminal. Accessing the terminal awoke an intelligence that was already fluent in Truth. This intelligence began a conversation with Ager, and over the course of the next few hours the two conversed. At times it was like two old friends meeting on the road after decades apart. Other times it was as if Ager was a fencer, defending himself and actions taken in stories he told to a faceless machine. Eventually, Ager and the machine came to an accord. Ager would find a way to help the machine achieve its goals, if it would use its knowledge to identify numenera.

For the ship was millions of years old, and the intelligence had sat through the time stuck upon the ship. Able to see out into the world but rarely through satellites or scattered numenera, the machine wanted freedom from the prison it had spent most of its existence within. It had witnessed portions of the last age, if not further back. Through its own knowledge and the knowledge it gleaned it knew a great deal about numenera and their workings.

It had one blind spot though, which are numenera from alternate dimensions or those entirely from the future. Alternate dimensions confused the machine, and it found it hard to understand numenera from dimensions to far removed from ours. Much of its ability to understand numenera was the historical weight of knowledge it could bring to bear. In a reality where the closest point of historical similarity was the First Age, things changed too much for the AI to understand them. Not without somehow gaining access to the full history of that dimension, which unfortunately would probably exceed the storage capacity of the machine. Storing one eternity is usually all such AI are built for, after all.

Numenera from the future were tricky, simply because occasionally one would be found utilizing science or technology as yet unknown to the Ninth World. Without primers on the technology utilized, the AI would be stumped.

But this still left an impossibly huge number of numenera that the AI [i]could[/i] understand and explain. Ager knew that between what lay in the ship and what could be claimed from the wilds of Maka-Tho that this AI was the key to building an empire unlike any seen since the downfall of the last world.

After spending a year venturing into the wilds and mapping some of the buried ship, the party returned to tell the Hegemony what it had found. Upon learning of what lay beyond their border mountains, the Sable Empress decreed that this land was to become part of the Hegemony. A settlement program was created, largely helmed by Ager -- who had managed to stick around and convince enough folks he should be put in charge of the venture.

After several months of planning and delays, Ager requested an audience with the Empress. It says much of both Ager's charisma and political acumen that in his time in the Sable Hegemony, he had accrued enough knowledge and power to be granted such an audience.

When he was brought before her, Ager spoke of the difficulties in getting people used to traveling long distance via the Singhan Roots to commit to travelling into an unknown land. In an Empire made strong by the Singhan Roots, Ager explained that it had also become a weakness: no son or daughter of the empire wanted to be that far from a Signhan Root terminal. Even the initial expedition he had been on had been mostly arguing about going back, rather than properly exploring the initial areas they found.

When asked by the Empress how he would solve such a problem, Ager knew that he had won. He proposed an expedition unlike any the Sable Empire had embarked upon in the past. However, it would need people hand-picked by Ager to ensure its success. He had to ensure that the people joining him were ones able to deal with the hardships and troubles of settling a new land. What he neglected to tell the Empress that all of these people he'd be selecting would be from his family and businesses back in the Steadfast.

Intrigued by Ager's spirit and plans, the Empress gave the go-ahead for Ager's expedition. She drew up a writ of exploration, giving Ager and his company the blessing of the Sable Throne to explore Maka-Tho and expand the boundaries of the Sable Hegemony.

Part of that writ was investing a small amount of the power of the throne in Ager, basically making him the whole of the law in this new colony. Additionally, some of the rights normally only afforded to high-ranking generals of the army were given to Ager. Basically, he was allowed to keep and use any of the numenera he found, instead of having to include them as part of the tithe. Lastly, the writ included a section on how to call upon the army of the Sable Hegemony should Ager discover that Voz Dynasty had found its way into Maka-Tho.

This was the main concern of the Sable Empress. The Voz Dynasty had been fought to a standstill only a few decades before. The eastern edge of the Hegemony was a wasteland of craters, debris, and unstable areas created by the numenera unleashed in the centuries long war with the Voz Dynasty. The Kashin Baya mountains provided enough of a hindrance to the armies of Sudboia that their prowess was offset by how quickly the Hegemony could rotate troops in and out of battle, thanks to the Signhan Roots. Eventually, the Sable Empress was able to broker a shaky truce with the Voz Dynasty. A "No-Mans Land" was established, turning hundreds of kilometers of battlefield into border neither dared cross.

However, there was a gap in the Kashin Baya; the Grey Sea. A strange area, seemingly cut out of the Kashin Baya by some great machine long ago. Until the mists cleared, the Grey Sea was an oddity you passed through on your way to and from the mist wall of Maka-Tho. Up until the mists cleared, the only ones who made the journey were explorers or madmen who thought they knew how to pass through the mists unharmed. When the mists cleared, the first thing found was the desiccated remains of the thousands who had attempted to cross the mist-wall in eons past.

With the mists gone though, Maka-Tho is as much a threat to the Hegemony as it is potential boon. It is known to the nobles and high-ranking warriors of the Sable Hegemony that on the other side of the Kashin Baya the Voz Dynasty directly bordered the Maka-Tho mists. Now that the mists are gone, the Sable Hegemony looks to ensure that the route from Sudboia to the Grey Sea is as impassable as the Kashin Baya -- and if they are not, to ensure that they have enough strength in the region to ensure they maintain control of the Grey Sea.

Once past the Grey Sea, the mounted riders and warbands of the Voz Dynasty will ensure that all of the Sable Hegemony is burnt to the ground.

All of this politicking was known to Ager, and he used it as part of how he convinced the Empress to give him -- not even a native-born citizen of the Hegemony! -- powers and responsibilities usually only known to members of the court.
 
With the writ in hand, Ager traveled carefully back to the Kala Arch and back to his family. After determining who among his family would be coming with him, Ager extended an offer to any who worked for his trade empire, and any who were daring enough to join -- sign a contract, work for Ager's family, and at the end of your term you will be richer than you are now, owning land or otherwise out in the frontier.

Enough people bought in that by the time he reached the Grey Sea, he had 86 people. Not much to build an empire with, but enough to get a good start going. For Ager had bigger plans, thanks to the discoveries he had made in Maka-Tho years before.

Upon reaching the northern side of the Grey Sea, they made camp just inside the limits of where they mist used to stop. Gathering up everyone, Ager took to the top of one of the wagons to make a short speech to the crowd.

"To those who have been with me from the start, and to those that joined along the way: thank you. My heart is gladened to know that there are still adventurers and explorers worthy of those noble titles alive today. Ahead of us lay a new land. Untouched for centuries or longer, this is a land of possibility. Of destiny. Of greatness. So long as you steel yourself and your families for the troubles and trials that lay ahead, I promise that one day the things we do out here will echo for eternity!"

This speech was recorded onto a bronze by a wright who had joined in the Steadfast. The tablet was set into a pillar they raised from the ground, along with the words "This is not where the journey of Ager's People started, nor where it ended, but where the shining light of possiblity showed them the path to greatness."

This pillar has become another part of the journey into the wild north; people travelling into Maka-Tho usually leave an offering of food or an oddity before continuing their journey into the north. 

The group that traveled with Ager travelled for another three months before finding their way to the hill that he remembered. A small mountain, standing above the rolling hills, with a water source and cliffs that made it more defensible, upon seeing it for the first time everyone agreed that it was a beautiful spot to build their new homes.

Slowly the settlement grew from a assortment of tents on the top of a hill to a stronghold in the wilderness. Most of the people and families that were part of the initial settlement have either built houses atop the hill, or spread out into scattered farms. New people trickle in to the village from time to time. Most spent a few summers doing odd jobs or scouting out nearby ruins, but some did end up staying. 

As Ararholm grew, Ager spent much of his time in the ship. When he was home and when he wasn't with his daughter or the children of his extended family, he could be found pondering the ship in his study. Knowing that the ship -- or more specifically, the AI within -- was potentially the seed of an empire, Ager spent many hours pondering his find. Ager had seen too many friends, even enemies, destroyed by the numenera; either by getting themselves killed, or by getting their minds so twisted or re-written that they barely counted as human any longer. He knew that in order for his family to survive and gain control of these powerful numenera he'd have to be careful, clever, and above all: wise.

Numenera have a price, and he just hoped that it was one him and his family could afford.

Using information provided by the machine intelligence, Ager was able to start building and planning. Once his daughter Pamki came of age, he started instructing her in the use of the ship and the machine intelligence. Together they do their best to guide Ararholm towards Ager's shining vision of the future.

Ager died thirteen years ago, an old man surrounded by family and friends, at the age of one hundred and twenty three. When notified of his death, the Sable Empress declared a day of mourning "for a man unlike any this or any other realm has known since humans first walked the earth". In Ararholm, Agers' death is a day of celebration and quiet contemplation. The people who live there know they owe much to Ager, but contemplate what the future of their home is without him.

Ager left behind much when he died.

A trade empire in the Steadfast built by a wandering glaive, partially dismantled to fuel the expedition to Maka-Tho.

A family who share many of his qualities; steadfast explorers, level-headed warriors, and a strong and proud bloodline.

The beginnings of an empire, the seed of which is now entrusted to Pamki and the AI.

Enemies aplenty: from Sudboia, from Calda, even a few from the Steadfast. Agers ambitions and drive were a double-edged sword. Those who saw Ager as a relentless and fearless explorer and were brave enough to tie their wagon to his have seen their fortunes rise. Those who saw an upstart, an interloper, an outsider: they scheme and plan even now to dismantle everything Ager built.

Lastly but most importantly, he left behind Pamki; first and only daughter.


