[h2]Pamki and Legacies[/h2]

Ager Hammersplint died thirteen years ago, leaving Pamki Hammersplint in charge
of the family and its destiny. Along with her wife Birgitte Ottum, Pamki has
been doing her best to keep the community of Ararholm alive, fed, and safe. But
she is not the dynamic force of nature her father was. Ager is a man that
convinced not only a good portion of his extended family but also a good chunk
of the employees of his trading empire to uproot their entire lives and travel
to a place none of them knew, into a land [i]nobody[/i] knows.

Pamki is good with machines, less so with people. If it wasn't for Birgitte,
Pamki probably would have gone off to explore not long after her father
died. Birgitte helps Pamki, a strong woman who gives Pamki the strength to deal
with the endless challenges facing Ararholm as it tries to put down permanent
roots and grow as a community.

Things have only gotten tougher in the last few years. The influx of what
amounts to treasure seekers and tomb raiders has not made her life easier. What
they bring in talent and news from the outside world they offset with
drunkenness and callous disregard for the people of Ararholm.

The restrictions on who's allowed into the ship and when were put in place when
fighting between two parties of ship divers nearly destroyed the town -- only
they and Ager know what they did, and most of them are dead now. All that
anybody knows is that a year or so after Ararholm was founded, one day the earth
shook and a crack opened in the side of one of the upper cliffs and out poured
hot, steaming water. While the townsfolk enjoyed their new hot spring, they
didn't enjoy nearly being atomised by whatever had happened in the ship.

After running them out of town, Ager put in place the rules around who gets to
go into the ship and how. He formed the council and wrote the first few laws for
the town specifically around trying to ensure something like that wouldn't
happen again. He knew that there was always a danger from the ship, but he also
knew that to maintain control over the AI he had found, he'd have to compromise.

Unfortunately, it was only a matter of time before something happened
again. Except this time Ager was a decade in the ground, and it was up to Pakmi
to solve. About five months ago, a party had broken something within the ship,
and now the spring of water that is the only source of water for the town is
poisoned. For a town on the frontier this is a problem.

The only other source of water, the hot spring, is not potable. It's full of
minerals and some other chemicals that are not good for inside of people but
does wonders for rest and relaxation if you simple bathe in it. Pakmi herself
tried to drink the water from the hot spring, and spent the next week unable to
keep any food or water down. If not for some healing cyphers held by the family,
she would have perished.

Now the town is facing a tough decision. Find a new source of potable water
nearby, or the town is done. There are enough numenera that can produce water
that they have a supply for now. There are only two problems with
this. The first is that the supply is limited; some numenera can only produce a
specific amount of water before having to recharge, others only have so many
uses left before they're unable to produce anything. The second problem is that
while the spring eventually turns into a river that meets and merges with
another, due to the poison in the water they have to find a new source upstream
of where their spring eventually joins the large river it runs to. The river is
out, as most of the explored rivers edge is swamp, with no stable land to build
on and practically impossible to defend.

There may be other sources of water nearby, but none have yet been found.

The water is only exacerbating the issues with the people who have travelled in
order to explore the ship. Over the last few years their number has grown. The
tent city that has grown in the lee of the mountain is large enough that within
a few months if nothing is done, they will outnumber the town. Thanfully, most
of the people in the tent city are either stopping at Ararholm before moving on,
or are either neutral or stand with Ararholm.

However, there is a faction led by someone named "Ghoka", that wants all the
restrictions to be lifted on exploring the ship. Ghoka is feared by most of the
townsfolks ( indeed, even people within his faction are terrified of him )
because of who Ghoka is. Or rather, who people think he is.

All people know is that Ghoka is a giant of a man who wears a strange suit of
armor and never takes his helmet off. Quick to anger but slow to call off
punishment, tales of death and debautchery surround Ghoka like flies around
livestock. Some say that Ghoka is a deserter from the Ruwan Dare, or that he
walked out of No-Mans Land different than when he walked in. Stories of what
Ghoka has done elsewhere before arriving at Ararholm have trickled out of the
camp, and if even only the tamest story is true then Ghoka is a monster outside
the ability of Pamki to deal with on her own.

Most of the fights in town ( drunken or otherwise ) involve one or more of
Ghoka's men. Some of the townsfolk are worried that Ghoka plans to take over the
town and turn it into his own fiefdom of cruelty. Others worry he's simply here
to secure the town before the armies of Calda or Sudboia come to wipe them
out. Whatever the reason for Ghoka's presence in Ararholm, all that's known is
something must be done before half the town flees to escape what Ghoka is
rumored to be planning.
