[h1]This Old Ship[/h1]

"When you have a billion-shin vision, don't surround yourself with one-shin minds"
[i]Ager Hammersplint[/i]

[h2]A Short History[/h2]

This land is named Calda, and is the home of the Sable Hegemony. This is an
empire that has ruled for centuries, in a harsh land that grows strong
children. Resources are scarce, and city-states vie for power and standing
within the empire.

To the north of Calda and the empire is a land that until 63 years ago was
covered in a deadly mist. Named for the mist that covered the land, Maka-Tho is
a mysterious land that has yet to be explored. None who ventured into it's neon
pink mists were ever seen or heard from again.

Separated from the mists by the massive spine of mountains named the Katon
Kashin Baya, or The Giant's Spine, Calda thought that their northern border was
the perfect defense. A nearly impassible range of mountains, on the other side
of which was an impassible numenera in Maka-Tho -- "The Mist Which Drinks" in an
older tongue.

One day, that mist disappeared. Nobody has found a reason why. 

[h2]The Noble Adventure[/h2]

One hundred years ago a man named Ager found an archway in the side of the Clock
of Kala that led elsewhere. He made it his quest to find a way to open this gate
and find out what lay beyond. During his search, he amassed a fourtune in
numenera and shins from his travels.

Eighty years ago, Ager packed up his trade empire, his family and everything he
owned and walked it through a portal into a land far to the north of the
Steadfast.

Within a year, Ager moved his family again -- out into this wild untamed land.

There he found a numenera that could change the world: buried in an old ship was
the key to unlocking potentially every numenera on the Ninth World and
beyond. To ensure that his family would always control this incredibly precious
resource, Ager built a town on top of the ship. They ensured they controlled the
only means of access to the ship, and have kept an iron grip on that control
ever since.

This town is named Ararholm, after an ancestor of Agers.

Ten years ago Ager died, and control of the family and the ship fell to his
daughter, Pakmi. She is doing what she can to hold the family and town together,
but she is not the charismatic leader her father was. She knows she needs help,
or her father's dream of a Hammersplint empire ends with her.

Five years ago, after decades of traders telling the world about Maka-Tho and
the vanishing of the mists, a slow trickle of explorers and homesteaders has
started. Every few months a new explorer, family, or hermit looking to get even
further away from people showed up in town.

Two years ago that trickle became a stream as word of the ship reached the
outside world. Now Ararholm faces many challenges in the days and months
ahead. Only time will tell what the town and its residents will discover within
their ship and outside the walls of their home. So many new faces who have come
to find out if their destiny lay in this exciting new land, or if the only thing
waiting is death.

Some of you have been called out by Pakmi to help her maintain and build her
town into something grand. Some of you are here for other reasons.

[h2]What Now?[/h2]

The ancient enemy of Calda now have a potential route for their armies, or at
least a land dangerously close to the northern border.

Maka-Tho itself may hide dangers that threaten the existence of the Sable
Hegemony. Or it may hide technology that turns the Sable Hegemony into a threat
to their neighbours. There are many things to find and secrets to discover, what
will you find in the ruins?

How will these discoveries change you and Ararholm? How will the frontier of the
Ninth World change you and your friends?

Will you wait and see what destiny has in store, or will you forge yourself into
someone strong enough to make their own destiny?
